# Specifying an offset

We can specify an offset from the first hit by using a `from` parameter. This, alongside the `size` parameter, enables us to achieve pagination.

`from` is like the `OFFSET` clause in SQL

`size` is like the `LIMIT` clause in SQL.

### Specifying an offset with the `from` parameter

```http
GET /recipe/_doc/_search
{
  "_source": false,
  "size": 2,
  "from": 2,
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "title": "pasta"
    }
  }
}
```

Which will get us the expected hits of:

```json
...etc...
  "hits": {
    "total": 9,
    "max_score": 1.2756016,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "recipe",
        "_type": "_doc",
        "_id": "21",
        "_score": 0.75821346
      },
      {
        "_index": "recipe",
        "_type": "_doc",
        "_id": "19",
        "_score": 0.6235748
      }
    ]
  }
...etc...
```

# pagination

To implement actual pagination, we need to see how many hits we have on our query (total results). 

This needs to be calculated in our application.

In simple math,
$$
\text{total pages} = ceil\bigg(\frac{\text{total_hits}}{\text{page_size}}\bigg)
$$
where $\text{page_size}$ is `size`, and $\text{total_hits}$ is simply the total results from the query (`hits.total`).

Then our `from` is simply:
$$
\text{total pages} = \text{page_size} \big(\text{page_number} - 1\big)
$$


NOTE: the search results is limited to 10000 results per page by ES. This is because as we navigate thru the pagination deeper, the heap memory becomes filled with our search results, which may unstabilize the clusters.

See more in https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-request-search-after.html



# things to note

 In databases, we have worked with cursors, which may let us view the data in pages. 

In ES however, **each** **query** is **stateless**. So paginated requests do a re-query (unless it is cached).

Therefore, each paginated request is always based on the most recent data.

If documents are added, deleted or modified, sometimes, we may see the same product on the same page, because of this.

This is unlike traditional relational databases, which is unaffected by addition, deletion and modification because the cursor stays **stateful** to its original state when it was searched.