# join limitations and performance considerations

* documents must be stored within the same index
  *  the only way for two indices to really be used is in a **term lookup mechanism**.
* Parents & child documents must be on the same shard.
* only **one** `join_field` per index, but this `join_field` can have as many relations as we want.
  * Also, new relations can be added after creating the index.
  * Child relations can only be added to existing parents
* A child can only have **one** parent document
  * But multiple children is possible, i.e. many to one ONLY.



# performance 

We are talking about the `join_field` type of join

### Join fields are slow.

Avoid join fields whenever possible, except for a few scenarios.



A few points:

- the more child documents pointing to unique parents, the slower the `has_child` query is.
  - the more documents, the slower the query. -> won't scale
- The number of parent documents slows down the `has_parent` query.
- Each level of document relations adds an overhead to queries



### that being said

There are certain scenarios where the performance of join fields won't be bad.

A one to many relationship between two document types, where one type has many more documents than the other.

e.g. recipes as parent documents, ingredients as child documents. This is because the ingredients will be far more than recipes.

## If using join fields is bad, then why did we just learn it?

Because, again, some join fields use cases is completely fine.

(and obviously) if you don't have lots of documents and won't have it anytime soon, performance will be fine. Tbh this is not a good answer - all unscalable methodologies are scalable when they have only 10 data points..

## how do we map document relationships?

Consider using nested data type.

**After all**, in a one-to-many relationship, the **one**  exists to be a parent of the **many**, so the **one** can just include the **many** in its own document. (nested)

ES is not optimized for joins, and more for searches.



The point of ES data is to **denormalize** data instead of mapping document relationships.

**denormalization** meaning that the data doesn't have a relational structure e.g. foreign keys (in this case, the `join_field`'s parent id is the foreign key)

